Back in the day, cognitive and social psychologists came up with the term *heuristics*to describe peoples' tendency to function much more efficiently through some sort of organization of the world. Heuristics, broadly, are the ways and means by which we attempt to simplify the world around us by breaking things down into broad categories. For example, I can think of something abstract, like a political allegiance, and categorize or define what it means to be Democrat, Republican, Libertarian, etc. I could say that Democrats are more liberal, which in political terms, possibly means that I am more accepting of change in the political structure or am broadly more "open-minded." 

In order to maintain a workable information storage system, you have to focus all of the information in to one "bucket" or "repository." This is probably one of the main barriers to organization that faces a lot of people and our patience, in particular. Basically think of this scenario: you have a patient who has maybe had a concussion or maybe they have Attention Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder, or maybe they've sustained a Moderate Traumatic Brain Injury, possibly an emerging dementia of some sort. Either way, they're having a lot of difficulty with aspects of day-to-day functioning like starting and finishing tasks, losing necessary items, forgetting about appointments that they have scheduled, and so on. These all follow the common thread of disorganization, broadly. They also report that, yes, in fact, they do have checklists and they use these things, or they have calendars that maybe they write on, or they also maybe use their mobile device to track certain appointments or take down quick notes. 

By themselves, these are all viable information capture and retrieval systems. The problem emerges when people don't have things centralized. At least, this is one part of a problem. So, when they go to <inaudible> written down about when something is due like a bill, or when they've scheduled an appointment, they are unable to locate this necessary information. It's a classic case of "right idea, wrong implementation."

## Systems
All systems have a natural tendency to move toward or along a gradient {>>stopped cleaning up transcription @ 5'47"@whb - 2014.06.16<<} that offers the least possible resistance. In other words, any system will act in a manner of greatest efficiency. People, in respect you organization, planning, an overall task management, this means using available resources. When you think about it logically it makes much more sense to simply use the things that you have in front of you rather than striking out to acquire new resources or new skills. This is particularly true in the case of our new skills. It's easy to get new stuff, at least that's what we think. Advertisers are in the business of telling us that this new product will make our lives much easier. So, if we have the money and wherewithal we simply go to the store and buy that product on the fundamentally flawed belief that our lives will be easier in some way. In reality, though, new things you get only new fittings. Our homes simply become ordered the net result is that we actually have more business through and more fitting commitments. This is problematic for most people. Efficient task management please really about having you doing less, not having and doing more. If we all surrender one or more things that the new thing supposedly streamlined to replaces, then this equation would be balanced. As things go, however, the equation for efficiency there's rarely balanced. Who tends to mistakenly believe we can superimpose a new structure on top of the old. Here is a case example:

>You find that your current method of task management, which is represented by daily pocket calendar, post it notes stuck around the house, and a loose list of on-the-fly to do items of stuff first, for unwieldy beneficial. So you decide then and there that you were going to start keeping appointments using the calendar on your phone. You do this for a week or possibly more, only to find that you enter items, but never checked the calendar. When you do check the calendar, you find that the appointments are entered with sparse information. You may not even be sure one of the appointment actually is for. You then also find that you're scheduling appointments that are one-time-only appointments; you don't schedule those things that occur on a routine basis, because you mistakenly believe that since you do these things all the time that you will always remember them. 

Thus, the problem has been revealed in this case: it is not that your old system of post it notes, a list of to dos in your pocket, and a day timer were inefficient, it is that your overall ability do properly track and schedule things was, and is, flawed at a fundamental level. You find yourself in a position kind of like a plumber with a roofer's toolkit.

|column|group A |Group B|
|:--------|:-------:|:-------:|
|thing| stuff | other stuff|
